feat(danebot): initial implementation (#1)
stuvusIT/danebot: README.md

Reviewer: Please add a note on the dependencies required to run this, maybe even a `requirements.txt` for easy setup in a virtual environemt.

Author: Done.

# DaneBot

DaneBot uses dynamic DNS (RFC 2136) to automatically renew TLSA records for renewed TLS
certificates.
Certificate renewal itself is out of scope for DaneBot.

> We suggest to run DaneBot as a cron job once a day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We suggest running DaneBot as a cron job once a day.
```

## Certificate and Key are Passed to the Hook

DaneBot requires a single PEM-encoded file containing both the certificate and
corresponding key (unencrypted).
(Having both in a single file eliminates race conditions with automated certificate
renewal tools running concurrently with DaneBot.)
With [Lego](https://github.com/go-acme/lego) such a file can be generated using the
`--pem` flag.

The hook (DaneBot's `--hook`) is run with the `DANEBOT_CERT` and `DANEBOT_KEY`
environment variables containing the new certificate and key (unencrypted) in
PEM-encoded format.

## Probe

When passing the `--probe` flag, DaneBot performs probes whether the server uses the new
certificate.
For that, DaneBot connects to the first domain given via -d/--domain using the first TCP
port given via --tcp and using SMTP with STARTTLS, in order to obtain the server's live
certificate.
One probe is done in the beginning and, if the server already uses the new certificate,
steps 2–3 are skipped, i.e., only the TLSA records are reconciled.
Another probe is done after running the hook (step 3) to verify that the hook
successfully installed the new certificate – an error is returned if that's not the
case.

> Currently DaneBot only supports SMTP-STARTTLS probes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, DaneBot only supports SMTP-STARTTLS probes.
```

## Command Line Options

See `src/danebot.py --help`.

## Example Usage

The following example command reads a certificate from
[Lego](https://github.com/go-acme/lego) and updates the corresponding TLSA-record
`_25._tcp.mx.example.com` on the authoritative nameserver `53.53.53.53`.
Of course, you need to replace `insert-name-here` and `insert-secret-here` by the name
and secret of a TSIG key with sufficient permissions.

```shell
export DANEBOT_RFC2136_TSIG_KEY=insert-name-here
export DANEBOT_RFC2136_TSIG_SECRET=insert-secret-here
src/danebot.py \
    --cert-file /etc/lego/.lego/certificates/mx.example.com.pem \
    --hook /etc/danebot/danebot-hook.sh \
    --rfc2136-nameserver 53.53.53.53 \
    -d mx.example.com \
    --tcp 25 \
    --ttl 3600 \
    --probe
```

You need to implement the hook `/etc/danebot/danebot-hook.sh` yourself.
The hook needs to be executable.
It might look like the following example, which installs the certificate on a postfix
server.

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
# This is /etc/danebot/danebot-hook.sh
set -e
echo Installing certificate ...
install -m 600 <(echo "$DANEBOT_KEY" && echo "$DANEBOT_CERT") /etc/postfix/fullchain.pem
echo Restarting postfix ...

> systemctl restart postfix

Reviewer: Shouldn't it be sufficient to reload the service?

Author: I tested it: reload is sufficient, so I changed it to reload in the example. Maybe we should then reload instead of restart here: https://github.com/stuvusIT/ansible_postfix/blob/9a8a6e97b287f29e5af76ec71dead6209c9113c9/tasks/main.yml#L154

```

In above example, the postfix server needs to be configured with
`smtpd_tls_chain_files = /etc/postfix/fullchain.pem`.

> This postfix configuration parameter can take a single PEM-encoded file containing the

Reviewer: Maybe include a link to the postfix documentation of this parameter.

Author: I could link to the [page with all configuration parameters](https://www.postfix.org/postconf.5.html), but it doesn't have CSS IDs per parameter.

I don't think it's necessary: certificate configuration syntax is highly dependent on the application and this README is not meant to cover that.
